<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="UTF-8">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
<title>KC Matters - Steno Practice</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css">
<style>
body.dark .matter-item { background:#2d2d2d; color:#fff; border-color:#444; }
.matter-item { 
  border:1px solid #ccc; padding:10px; margin:8px 0; border-radius:5px;
  cursor:pointer; transition: background 0.2s; display:block;
}
.matter-item:hover { background:#f0f0f0; }
.back-btn { background:#6c757d; color:white; border:none; padding:10px 20px; border-radius:5px; cursor:pointer; margin-bottom:15px; }
</style>
</head>
<body>

<div class="container">
<h2>KC Matters</h2>
<button onclick="goHome()">Home</button>

<div id="mattersList">
  <!-- Matters will be injected here -->
</div>

</div>

<script src="./script.js"></script>
<script>
const KC_MATTERS = [
  { name: "Transcription No: 133", text: "Mr. Chairman, Sir, may I have the opportunity to participate in this debate? This is a private Member's Bill and I want to congratulate the mover of this Bill for having brought this Bill. A very important subject has been raised that right to work should be made a fundamental right. Right to work is the birthright of everybody however poor or however rich, whether a man or a woman. We have right to property as a fundamental right in our country, but it is really sad that right to work which provides right to live should not be made a fundamental right and should only be a Directive Principle. Why has this happened? Why could it not be made a fundamental right till now? It is known that once it becomes a fundamental right, it becomes justiciable. That means that a person can go to the High Court or Supreme Court and say that it is his fundamental right and he must get a job. But as the Government was not sure that it would be able to provide employment to every citizen, it did not do so. Because a fundamental right cannot be made only for a particular age group; it is for all citizens and every unemployed citizen can come to the court and claim his right for a job to be given to him. That was the real apprehension, reluctance on the part of the Government, but this helps us to raise a larger economic issue of how we can create conditions in our country where every work-worthy person would have a job. It is this subject which is being debated and this is what should be debated as the most important subject in the Parliament and in the country today. Unfortunately, I find very few people taking interest in this. Today, if we just introspect and sit a little coolly and consider how much energy is being wasted on trying to win debating points, trying to be sensational, trying to have mere superficial debate in this country, we will find that we are doing that too much. But the real issue is how to provide employment to every young man of this country because after all what is socialism. When we say that we have pledged ourselves in the Preamble that we will establish a democratic, socialist, secular, sovereign Republic, what does it mean? What is socialism? It means all members of our society must have an equal opportunity to live a decent human life. Such conditions must be created in our society where every single individual should have that right, that is the simple meaning of the word 'socialism'—a society where a few do not have an opportunity and a right to exploit and extort. Such a society should be created and this is what socialism means. And to bring it about within the framework of a democratic structure, i.e. by the will of the people, is the meaning of the concept which our founding fathers have enshrined in the Constitution when they said that we will have a democratic, socialist society. Let us ask ourselves this question: Have we succeeded in doing it? When I am participating in the debate today, I am not going to speak from the point of view of winning or scoring the debating points between people on this side or that side. I think it is the duty of all of us. These people in this House and in that House, who have been entrusted by crores of people of this country with the task of doing something that will change their destiny and change their life, it is incumbent on us to sit down and to give the topmost priority to consider as to how we can achieve this. And if this is given priority, I am sure a way can be found. Instead of wasting our energy on other matters, let us concentrate on this matter. I am absolutely one with my friends when they say that this should be given the top priority. What do the young people of this country expect? Why are they restive? Why are they frustrated? It is because they are not employed; they do not have productive employment, creative employment. That is why they feel frustrated. By and large, if this is the fact, Sir, then let us consider how this can be achieved. If you want to provide employment, employment must be productive. What is wealth? Wealth is goods and services. It is not notes—the currency notes are actually the means of exchange. The wealth is goods. When do you say that a man is poor? It is when he is not able to have even the necessities of life. Now, how can you make them available to him? Obviously, first they must be produced and then he must have the purchasing power to buy them. How can he have the purchasing power unless he has remunerative work?" },
  { name: "Transcription No: 134", text: "In view of the recommendations made by the Backward Classes Commission, the Government of India examined the matter in consultation with the State Governments concerned. This is exactly what we have decided and what has been incorporated in the present Bill. As a result, it has been decided that in the case of Rajasthan the area restriction should be removed altogether, because in Rajasthan this population has been spread over a very large area. It was found that they were entitled to this measure of protection and, therefore, this area restriction has not been kept up in respect of Rajasthan at all. In the case of the other two States, namely, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, the tribes residing in tehsils where there is concentration of twenty per cent or more of tribal population should be specified as Scheduled Tribes. This is point number two so far as the salient recommendations of the Backward Classes Commission were concerned. Then, Sir, the third point was regarding the actual omissions or actual additions. There were a number of communities. In respect of this, there are certain difficulties which I shall be pointing out very soon. So far as the Backward Classes Commission's recommendations in this respect were concerned, there were certain natural handicaps. When we received their recommendations regarding either additions or omissions, naturally we had to depend upon the well-considered views of the State Governments. As I stated to the House, there was a double reference. The first reference was at the preliminary stage and the second reference was with regard to the tentative proposals that the Government had evolved. Therefore, in this case, after the receipt of the views of the State Governments, the Government finally re-cast what they had prepared in the light of these views. Generally, what has been done is when there has been a recommendation which is supported both by the Backward Classes Commission and the State Government, then we accept that particular community either for addition, if formerly it was not there, or for omission, if omission has been jointly supported by both these people. If, for example, there is a difference of opinion between them, then the Government considered the matter. I would point out that the State Governments have a number of means of knowing the correct position so far as these are concerned. So far as the Backward Classes Commission was concerned, there were certain handicaps, as pointed out to you, and there were certain views to follow to the extent it is necessary. In a few cases, naturally we had to come to certain conclusions irrespective of the view either of the Backward Classes Commission or of the State Governments. But such cases are not many. And then, after considering all these things, you will find, we have prepared the list, the names of the various communities attached to the Bill, which ought to be recognised so far as either the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes are concerned. One more important question arises so far as the number of these communities is concerned. That was a very difficult task. Now, what happened was naturally representations were made to the Government and we ought to give up encouraging or perpetuating that caste system. And, therefore, when the census had to be prepared, the question arose as to whether Government should have the enumeration in respect of the members of the separate castes through their officers or whether the enumeration should be confined as well to the groups or categories of Scheduled Castes as a whole and Scheduled Tribes as a whole and the Bhil community. In some of the former census, on account of these communities shown separately. But in the census that took place, there was this view that the Government should not amalgamate all of them under these two recognised heads, namely, the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. The desire was to not go on perpetuating the various castes and tribes. Therefore, a separate enumeration as Bhil was not done. What I am mentioning is only one community, that he belonged to a particular tribe, when the man stated that the enumerator found out whether he was one of a caste, then his name was shown in the category of the special community without mentioning the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes recognised by the President's Order. Then, afterwards, this Commission was appointed. One of the results of the appointment of this Commission was naturally the accentuation of the emphasis on castes and tribes. Every community began to plead because after all certain rights were given. And, therefore, every community was advisable to claim that either they thought it was a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe." },
  { name: "Transcription No: 135", text: "Now, Sir, I know that this Plan has just started, and it is perhaps too early for us to say anything about it. But we have before us the experience of the Nine Five Year Plan. Sir, we had been told that due importance would be attached, not merely in words but by practical steps, to the public sector. I think in this connection it was the duty of the hon. Minister to have explained to this House as to the steps that had been taken with a view to bringing about the kind of reorientation in favour of the public sector which was promised in his numerous statements. But I find that that is completely missing from his speech, except that a pious wish has been expressed with regard to this particular sector. Previously, we had under the purview of this Act about 42 industries. Now, the list has lengthened and a number of industries will be added. I concede that when we are having a planned economy, when we are thinking in terms of rapid development of industries, of rapid industrialisation, it is necessary for the Government to come into the picture more and more and assume the necessary control and direction of industries. I am not opposed to it at all. On the contrary, I would like them to vigorously examine as to whether the direction, regulation—or whatever you call it—is on the right lines; how it has worked. We have got such general statements from the Ministers that they do not throw much light for us laymen on the matter. I wish that when such measures are brought before the House, a kind of white paper—or whatever you call it—is circulated among the Members. You do not expect that we, laymen in this House, would easily understand these things until and unless we have some opportunities of studying the relevant data and the material on the subject. We have been denied those opportunities and I regret that we have been so denied. I know that in this respect hon. Members who come from big business or the business world would be in a somewhat advantageous position because they are familiar with the working of this Act in a way which would enable them to speak more effectively. Now, let us see how this has worked. I know that when this measure was first brought before the House several years ago, there was much opposition to it, which came not from the public but from certain business interests. They did not like any kind of Government interference in industry. They believed in a kind of laissez faire in this matter and they thought that if the Government came into the picture, their interests would suffer. Naturally, they were openly hostile to these powers for the Government, but that was not the view of the country. I think that, by and large, public opinion was in favour of Government controlling industries, not the type of control that we had at the time of the World War but a type of control which sets before itself certain objectives and as the objectives became clearer and clearer, as the Government pronounced itself more and more in favour of industrialisation in the country, public opinion strongly veered round to that particular point of view of the Government in this matter, viz., that Government should have control over our industries. But it is the Government which has not lived up to its promises. I think that in some respects they have let the people down and the expectations of the people have been belied. Now take, for instance, the period between 1991 when the measure was first adopted and now. What do we see? We do not have compact figures for the entire period. We have got only certain figures with regard to this matter. I would refer only to the Progress Reports on the Seventh Five Year Plan. There, you will see that the Government had not taken any very effective steps for the development of the public sector. It is true that certain steel mills got going under the Seventh Five Year Plan and more will be started under the Eighth Plan, but if you look at the picture, you will find that the public sector was considered to be a secondary matter. It was the private sector which got all the attention and assistance of the Government. I am not at all suggesting that Government was totally unmindful of the public sector. What I am saying is that when the Government entered into the picture, it did not give to the public sector the attention that it deserved. I think that the hon. Minister owes us an explanation not only as to why such a thing happened but also as to steps he is going to take with a view to changing the pattern of such development." },
  { name: "Transcription No: 136", text: "Now about the Secretaries. Generally, there is one for each Department and he wants Joint Secretaries, Deputy Secretaries and so on. There is a whole army of Secretaries; I do not know how many we have got. It is very difficult to keep pace with the growth of the Secretaries in our administration. When the British left, there were a few; now there are too many. I am not at all suggesting that the number should not have increased. Our Prime Minister is quite right in saying that the administrative work has increased many times, fifty to a hundred times. I do not know whether it is fifty times or a hundred times. But much of the work is not worth having because if you assess the work properly, then you will find some of the useless things need not be there at all. However, I concede that point that we would require perhaps more ministerial servants in the various Departments—more Under Secretaries, Assistants, stenographers, clerks and so on. I concede that point. But are we not having too many Secretaries? I know what work they are doing. Is there any proper check on that? Most of the work that goes in their name is actually done by people about whom we never discuss, who are never recognised, whose merit we do not take into account. In our country, the men in the lower rung of the ladder of this public administration—these Assistants and others—do a lot of work and it is a very good thing. We are a cultured people, we are a civilised people and we are a people with initiative. Now, when they feel that they are the functionaries of the Government, naturally they would like to put their very best, and in fact they are doing so. Unfortunately, their efficiency is not given either due recognition or due incentive which is required in order to tone up the administration and improve the affairs in our public administration. We should reject this idea of administration by the Secretaries. We have got a Parliament; we have got a Ministry which is supposed to be responsible to the Parliament. Howsoever irresponsibly at times it may behave, constitutionally it is supposed to be responsible to Parliament. And then we have got a big administrative set-up of the Government of India.There are people of efficiency, people who are not recognised, who nevertheless discharge their duties efficiently. We want to improve the pace of the administration. That is the crux of the problem. You cannot have initiative and efficiency until you have our administration democratised. There is bureaucratism; there is soullessness at every point in our administration. I do not know how many of you have talked to the Secretaries of the various Departments. I have talked to some of the Secretaries but sometime I feel as if I were talking to useless persons. One does not see any reaction on their face. I feel that it is a machine that I am talking to. It depresses me and I am sure many other people also feel depressed. So all these Secretaries of these Departments have to be responsive to criticism and to the wishes of the public. They should be democratised and it all depends on how you talk to the public, how you listen to them, what you gather from what the people say. Not that they always say the right things, and sometimes they say very good things and such things should be properly gathered. This is not done. Therefore, what is of vital importance in our country for us for improving the public administration is to democratise the administration and do away with the bureaucratic cold-bloodedness that exists in our public administration today. That is of vital importance. I stress it again and again because the crux of the problem lies there. Initiative has to be developed at the lower level by entrusting more responsibilities to the lower officials and by giving recognition to their services and also making it easy for them to work. Their conditions of service have to be improved. Their emoluments must be made adequate to make their life worth living. All these things are important for improving our public administration. As far as the public undertakings are concerned, I am totally opposed to the bureaucrats or representatives of the big money being placed in positions of authority in public undertakings. There are people—no matter in which politics they belong—who are efficient, who are devoted and who can discharge their functions very ably in all walks of life. You can find people from among the common folk who could be placed in those positions. Sir, life insurance has been nationalised. What do we find there? It is a public undertaking of great importance to the country. There, you have got the same people; the old furniture is placed with some sort of rearrangement." },
  { name: "Transcription No: 137", text: "Before putting forward a measure of this nature before Parliament, we had given considerable thought to certain aspects of cloth prices as they exist today, and it is only because we felt that this is the only means now open to us which can, to some extent, act as a deterrent against high prices and, where it fails to do so, would be able to absorb the margins of profit that go to the trade and industry that we sought to bring in this measure for the approval of Parliament. Sir, the factual position which has been described in the note might be summarised thus. The existing capacity in the mills is being utilized to the maximum extent. In fact, Sir, in July, the production of textiles has been an all-time record of five hundred million metres. Hon. Members might say, Well, if that is possible, why do you fear that there is going to be scarcity of cloth? In fact, I think it is the possible scarcity and the high prices that have induced these people to stretch a point and make the mills produce a little more, though certain factors helping to increase production have been accidental, namely, in July, the working days have been the largest in number. The other fact is, Sir, that we are not in a position within any measurable distance of time to increase the capacity of the mills both in regard to its looms, that is, weaving, and in regard to its spindlage, that is, spinning. The spindlage in the mills is frozen. We are not adding to the looms except for the recent decision that we have taken that we should add to the mills by way of automatic looms intended specifically for promotion of export of cloth and, so far as spindlage is concerned, that has been restricted to an increase over a period of one and a half years to about two million spindles, the licence for bulk of which has already been granted and this decision had been taken on the basis of an estimate of consumption of eighteen metres per capita during the Eighth Five Year Plan and towards the end of it. When that decision was taken, Sir, Government were not unconscious of the fact that that target would not be a correct one and in an expansionist economy, that target is likely to be exceeded but that target figure was tentatively accepted mainly because it happened to coincide with the recommendation of a committee which, inter alia, dealt with the requirements of the people in regard to cloth, that is, the Ramamoorthy Committee, and, therefore, Sir, if the guilt is laid at the doors of Government, I will have to plead guilty, namely, that we were not in a position to envisage the rapid expansion of consumption. The figures that I have furnished to hon. Members will indicate that while the consumption figures per capita last year, that is, for nineteen ninety-five, would be two hundred and ninety-six, there has been a rise during the first half, and that unless the price factor, the scarcity factor and other factors operate to diminish the total consumption, the rate of consumption might undoubtedly increase. Of course, there is a limiting factor because cloth has to come either by inhibiting exports or by an increase in production or by an increase in the handloom sector; and in these three cases, we have almost reached the maximum point where we can expect additions to the total cloth consumption. So it is possible that cloth consumption might go up to seventeen metres and is not likely to go beyond that merely because of the fact that cloth will not be there. Probably, if the cloth is available and if we allow people to consume the cloth freely, well, the consumption per capita might exceed seventeen metres by the end of the year. But it is certainly indicative of the fact that in the first year of the Plan, we have only got a margin of one metre per capita. We have also got to realise that the amount of money that is being pumped into the country and, to some extent, into the hands of the lower income groups will have one effect, namely, certain commodities like cloth and sugar and commodities of that sort which have been considered to be features of necessities in consumption in the past would have become more elastic articles of necessity, and be transferred from the semi-luxury state. In such a case, twenty or twenty-one metres seems to be well within our possibility of achievement as a target. There is undoubtedly a background behind this restrictive attitude in regard to addition of capacity and that is, to some extent, sentimental and, to some extent, economic and deliberate. We want to help the decentralized sector in this industry; the handloom sector has to obtain protection against the weaving mills" },
  { name: "Transcription No: 138", text: "Then, Sir, some attempt has been made to introduce certain elements in the present Constitution (Amendment) Bill, but naturally other details and further elucidations are out of the purview of the present Bill, and therefore a new Bill will have to be brought forward to the extent that it is necessary for incorporating these provisions. In the meanwhile, I would assure the House that Government have made arrangements and will take steps for having interim advisory bodies etc. so far as all these areas are concerned, and then immediately in the next session or, if that were not possible, in the session after the next, an attempt would be made to place before this House a Bill or Bills for broadly carrying out the scheme, especially the administrative scheme, that I have explained to this House. There will of course be, in addition to these bodies, so far as Delhi is concerned, a Delhi Development Authority. All these are necessary because Delhi is the capital and all attempts have to be made to make Delhi as model a city as possible. Now, the next item with which this Bill deals is what is known as the safeguards for linguistic minorities. Now, this would apply to two or three States. So far as this question is concerned, one is that we are dealing only with linguistic minorities, not any other minorities at all, and we are generally following the line that has been laid down by the States Reorganisation Commission. The States Reorganisation Commission rightly pointed out that even after the reorganisation of States, there would remain a large population speaking languages other than the territorial language of the particular State. Now, so far as these people are concerned, certain safeguards were considered essential. In the first place, we have to note that all inhabitants in any part of India, State or Union Territory, are the citizens of India. They have a common citizenship and the rights of common citizenship will naturally be available in all respects so far as the linguistic minorities in different parts are concerned. But it is essential that as far as possible the interests of the linguistic minorities should be safeguarded to the extent that it is necessary. The States Reorganisation Commission have pointed out in this respect that after all these linguistic minorities are the citizens of India. Now, Sir, so far as the States Reorganisation Commission was concerned, it was stated that, as far as possible, there ought to be no statutory safeguards as such, except to the minimum extent, and whatever it has stated has been accepted. It was stated that in respect of the rights of the children of these linguistic minorities, there ought to be a statutory provision, and that they ought to be taught through the medium of their own mother-tongue at the primary school level. Now that has been accepted. In the Bill, so will you find, a new provision has been made in the Bill so far as the secondary education stage is concerned. The other questions are many, as for example, to what extent there should be the language of a minority as a medium of examination in middle schools and in colleges; or whether it should also be a medium of administration in Government offices. Now, Sir, there is another question also which has been raised, namely, the question of domiciliary rules. There are certain States where certain rules are made according to which it may be difficult for the non-residents in that area to acquire certain rights. In some cases, very long periods have been laid down. If not, in one case, twelve years residence was prescribed, and that was considered rather inequitable. As you are aware, Sir, in this respect, the Constitution has stated that if, for example, there are any such rules which had the force of law at the time when the Constitution was inaugurated, then they would continue to have the force of law until Parliament makes a law in that respect. We are considering that aspect of the question also. Then, Sir, the important question that has to be noted is that if we have a common citizenship, then the question arises whether it would be open, or it ought to be open, to the various State Governments to lay down certain rules which are likely to be complained of as discriminatory provisions, so far as the acquisition of property is concerned, or so far as the admission to Government services is concerned. Therefore, Sir, the whole subject is under the consideration of the Government of India, and we are anxious to evolve certain provisions. Therefore, Sir, coming back to the linguistic minorities, what has been decided is this. It was suggested that the Governor should have the right of finding out the solution for this and giving property rights to all citizens in his State." },
  { name: "Transcription No: 139", text: "Mr. Deputy Speaker, Sir, there is a ban on transporting agricultural produce from one part to another part of the country. During the last session, the hon. Minister had announced that this ban will be lifted, but it has not been done till now. The farmers are unable to take their produce to any part of the country. As a result of total neglect towards agriculture, the allocation given to this field has decreased from four per cent to three per cent in the annual plan outlay. The allocation for National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development is going down in every annual plan in comparison to the annual plan of nineteen ninety-two-ninety-three. Similarly, only six per cent amount has been provided for loans and electricity. There has been no considerable increase in it in the last year. This step of the Government is totally unjustified towards the farmers and agriculture. The continuous decrease in the ground water level is also a matter of grave concern. Ever since the Congress Party has come to power, there has been over ten per cent difference between the estimated capacity and actual utilisation of irrigation potential. If this gap had been filled, it would have increased the food grain production. Not only our country would have become self-reliant in food grains, but it would have been also able to export them. Several big projects are lying pending and near about seventy per cent of land is deprived of irrigation. Same is the condition of forest areas also. Wherever there are Congress Governments, they have grossly violated the interests of the farmers. The network of multinational companies is spreading in our country which will create problems for the farmers. Their interests are being mortgaged in the hands of foreign powers. Due to this reason, the country is becoming dependent on others for food and it can jeopardise our political and social freedom. Mr. Deputy Speaker, Sir, it is bad luck that our farmers are not organised today. But the day they become organised, they can revolt. Since the time this Congress Government has been formed, it is not even ready to accept rightful demands. Unless such activities as sabotage, economic blockade and gherao are adopted, the Government is not able to understand the problem. So, I would like the Government not to create so much problem for the farmers that they are compelled to revolt. Mr. Deputy Speaker, Sir, my party and myself totally oppose the Dunkel proposals. It is very regretful that these proposals have caused infighting among the Cabinet members. One of your Ministers says that export of our proposals and acceptance with the Dunkel proposals will destroy our country. So, there is difference of opinion in the Cabinet also. One Minister is opposing while another Minister is supporting the Dunkel Proposals. When there is so much difference of opinion in the Cabinet itself, what right Ministers should go; the Minister who is opposing his Government's policy should resign. If the Government is ready to accept the Dunkel proposals, the Agriculture Minister should resign, and if the Government is not accepting the proposals, the Commerce Minister should resign, as he was praising the proposals. When the farmers resort to agitation for their demands, the entire Government will have to resign. Mr. Deputy Speaker, Sir, our country is severely affected by drought at present. Orissa, Bihar, Maharashtra and eastern part of Uttar Pradesh are affected by drought, but our Central Government decides everything in a haphazard manner. The Prime Minister surveys a State once and gives Rs. ten crores, Rs. twenty crores or Rs. fifty crores. Then he goes to another State. Such a haphazard manner cannot solve the problem. There should be a permanent solution. Even after sixty-five years of Independence, the Government has not been able to control drought. Maximum rain water has not been wasted and there is no storage facility. Sir, Andhra Pradesh is also severely affected by drought and the situation has become so worse that the farmers are forced to kill their own children. Neither there is fodder nor water for their cattle. Sir, it is just the opposite in Karnataka. It is affected by floods which have caused a lot of damage. On the one hand, there is devastation due to heavy rains; on the other hand, there is suffering due to drought. I have read the draft of the agriculture policy. I do not think that the hon. Minister of Agriculture has paid any attention towards this problem. I would like to submit that this agriculture policy is unfavourable to the farmers. No facilities are being provided to them and agricultural inputs are being made costlier. Injustice is being done to them. Eighty per cent of the cultivators and the Government should think about their welfare. If this is not done, then eighty per cent population will resort to agitation, as I have said earlier also." },
  { name: "Transcription No: 140", text: "Mr. Deputy Speaker, Sir, at the outset, I would like to express my heartfelt thanks to you for having given me an opportunity to participate in this discussion on the Demands for Grants of the Ministry of Agriculture. Sir, this Government is going to complete its two years term on nineteenth June, nineteen ninety-three. In the last two years, I have been closely watching how this Government is taking keen interest to help this unorganised sector. This is the major rural sector comprising about seventy per cent of the population, but in all the three Budgets which they have presented before this House, I am sorry to say, the Government has not shown any keen interest. In the first Budget, we demanded the Government to agree to constitute a Committee to go into the pricing policy of fertilizers. Ultimately, a portion of the recommendations of the Joint Parliamentary Committee, which suited the Government, was accepted and the fertilizer decontrol was done. Now, I would like to say how this Government has taken a callous attitude towards the farming community. In the last Budget, various concessions were given only to the affluent sections of the society and not to the farming community except a reduction of the excise duty on tractors which are above eighteen hundred cc and the tractors which are below eighteen hundred cc have not been touched. Of course, the hon. Finance Minister, while replying to the general discussion on the Budget, had said that the Prime Minister is considering to give certain concessions as far as the fertilizer prices are concerned. All of a sudden, what made the Government to reconsider the question of reducing the prices of fertilizers to give some concessions? It is because all these friends who have got various political ideologies have shown their bit of mind and said that this time they are going to move a cut motion to see that the Government agrees to reduce the fertilizer prices. So, at this stage, I would like to make an appeal to all sections of the House, irrespective of the political parties, and to such of those Members who are really interested in uplifting the farming community, to forget the party alliance. At the time of voting, everyone is also equally interested to see that his farming community is given its proper due share. The Central Government claims that they have removed all shackles through the new economic policy, market economy, liberalisation, de-licensing, amendment to the MRTP Act, etc. But they have done it only for the industrial sector. Some of those people have been really enjoying the benefit for the last forty-seven years after Independence, the last seven Five Year Plans, structural reforms or the economic reforms or the export policy changes or whatever they may be, they are only having an eye towards those people, and these changes have been made for those people. I would like to ask this Government what are the types of structural reforms they have thought over for the farming community. You are amending the MRTP Act. The industrialists can make any amount of investment; there is no restriction for these people, any amount of profit. So, there is no restriction for these people. Unfortunately, for the people who come from the rural areas or the people who are actually the tillers of the soil, they have got all restrictions or whatever it may be. They cannot hold land more than ten acres. Land Reforms Act has been implemented and in some States there may be a little bit of lapses. I do not want to enter into that controversy at this stage. There is no ceiling on income so far as these oppressed sections are concerned. There is no ceiling on income as well as no ceiling on urban land or the urban property. But you have enforced the ceiling on agricultural property because they are not the organised people. About lending also, I would like to make a mention. Farmers have to go from pillar to post. Various types of financial institutions have been created for financing the farmers. But to what extent are we going to include the agricultural sector as a priority sector? We have only fifteen per cent of the bank deposit is going towards the farming community. The agricultural sector contributes about thirty-two per cent of the GDP whereas the loan or the bank advance is only fifteen per cent for this so-called priority sector. So far as industrial sector is concerned, it comprises only eighteen per cent of the population and their contribution in terms of GDP is hardly twenty-six per cent. They get about forty per cent of the bank loan. Again, even to get this forty per cent loan, the farmer has to go to land development bank, central cooperative bank, rural cooperative bank, commercial bank and so on." },
  { name: "Transcription No: 141", text: "Sir, when I take part in the discussion, first of all, I wish to point out that the Sarkaria Commission was not given a free hand to examine the developments which had taken place in the last forty years in India. The main important point is the terms of reference. By the terms of reference, certain parameters had been fixed. Within those parameters, the Sarkaria Commission submitted its report. There are more than two hundred recommendations. Due to lack of time, it is not possible to deal largely with all these recommendations. But, at the same time, the Commission has tried to find out the past history of India. The Commission has said that too much centralisation was objected to from the Mauryan period to the Mughal period. The Commission has stated the fact. Similarly, under the British rule also, centralisation was actually objected to by the people. The founding fathers of our Constitution were painfully conscious that the feeling of Indian nationhood was still in the making and required to be carefully nurtured. They, therefore, built a constitutional structure with a powerful Central Government envisaging the emergence of an indivisible and integrated India. The concept of a strong Centre which was necessary to meet India's immediate needs was virtually, in the later period, converted into the concept of a unitary State with priority for the Centre in all cases. This was the basis of the process of excessive centralism, with all powers in the hands of the Centre. India is developing on the path of capitalism, especially monopoly capitalism. When monopoly capitalism develops in a country, it is then natural that the general argument will be for centralisation of the powers in the hands of the Central Government because they want to protect the interests of the monopoly capitalists and also help the capitalists. So, that is the natural argument for the last so many years. But over-centralisation has taken place and we know that it has taken place. What is the result now? Many are talking about the unity of the country, about the integrity of the country. But what has happened in the States? Communal forces have grown, divisive forces have grown, and the integrity of the country has been jeopardised. When the powers were vested in the hands of the Centre, why has the Centre failed? The Khalistan movement is there and there are other movements also, secessionist movements. Now, some people are demanding a Jharkhand State, and there are all developing. There was a similar demand in Darjeeling. But other fissiparous tendencies are growing and the Centre has not been able to control them. The Centre has not been able to prevent them. But they think that unity of the people has to be maintained, that the unity is only for the Centre, and not for the States. The question of Centre-State relations in India is not a question concerned only with the implementation of federal principles or with the violation of those principles or with suggesting a few Constitutional amendments, but it is concerned with the question of maintaining the sense of Indianness or Indian oneness among all the constituents of the Indian Union with the Centre as the expression of that unity, which has enabled us to maintain that unity. But for maintaining that unity, the constituent units have not received any reward in the integration of the units because each constituent unit consisted of big territories, each with its own language and heritage. In these huge linguistic national units, their linguistic identity and sense of unity grew side by side with the identity bestowed on the Union. So, a deep thought has to be bestowed on how to maintain the unity with the support of the people, with the support of the States. But that is not the concern of the Government. The Sarkaria Commission has been able to make certain recommendations within certain parameters. Even within those parameters, two recommendations are there which are neither advisable nor necessary. One is that it is neither drastic change in the basic character of the Constitution. The second is that the electoral system can be continued like this. In the second recommendation, the Commission says that it certainly calls for improvement and reform in a number of aspects. The actual working of the Constitution leaves much to be desired. It has said about the changes proposed in the financial aspects of the Indian Union and the States. The arrangements are far from satisfactory. It has said about the role of the Governors, reservation of State Bills for consideration of the President, use of extraordinary powers, etc., etc. The Commission has said about the Inter-Governmental Council with a comprehensive size, Council having a nexus with the Planning Commission, limitation of the Centrally-sponsored schemes, State finance and planning, etc., etc." },
  { name: "Transcription No: 142", text: "There is, however, one recommendation of the Press Commission which seems to have been omitted when making the provisions of this Bill. The Commission had said that on the Council representation must be given to the periodical press also, i.e., the weeklies and others. I find that omission here. I feel that in our newspaper world, these periodicals, these monthlies, fortnightlies and weeklies do play an important part, especially in moulding public opinion and in the dissemination of knowledge. Therefore, I think that the recommendation of the Press Commission that some representation ought to be given to the periodical press also, must be considered in this connection. It seems to have been omitted here. That is what I have to say at this stage regarding the composition of the Council. Next, I come to clause 14 of this Bill which is a very vital clause. I was happy to listen to the hon. Minister when he stated that it is the accepted canon of journalistic conduct not to disclose the source of information. If you go through the history of journalism in India, you will find that our top men in the newspaper world had refused to divulge the source of information and they had to suffer for it and because of such suffering, the prestige and self-respect of the profession have been very much heightened. No journalist worth his salt would disclose the source of his information, not because he is so anxious to keep his own self-respect but because he knows that it is vital for the profession as a whole. If you want an independent Press, if you want your newspapers to play their part in the field of public opinion, if you ask them to disclose the source of their information, then the very spring of independent journalism would be touched and that is not a desirable thing. The hon. Minister has himself explained that point and therefore I need not labour that point any more. I however find that clause 14 expressly lays down that the Council has the power of requiring discovery and production of documents. If you call upon a correspondent or the owner of a paper or a publisher, in many cases it would be impossible to withhold the source of information. You cannot withhold the source of information and, at the same time, discover and produce the documents.We have given notice of an amendment. Even if you want to continue the existing provision, you could provide for an exception saying that the journalists must not be required to disclose the source of information. It is not a question of just the newspaper people and the public being apprehensive over these things. Here is a provision which has been expressly put there. Of course, you can say that eminent journalists will be there on the Council and that we can expect the leaders of the newspaper world who can be expected to be elected to this Council to pay proper heed to the professional standards but it will be better if you were to put an express provision in the Bill itself. Now, the newspapers reflect political opinion of the country and there are bound to be sharp differences and, however much we may try, it may not be always possible to keep within the limits. By this provision, you are giving them a handle to force an unwitting journalist or somebody holding a different view to disclose the source of information that is not called for. Coming to the other general powers of the Press Council, it is true, as mentioned by the hon. Minister himself, that the powers granted to this body are far more and go far beyond the powers granted to the British Press Council in the particular statute. I quite follow that. The penal provisions therein have not been called to use. As the Minister himself made it clear, it is just a sanction. The body to be created will enable the profession and the industry to regulate themselves. It is some sort of a voluntary thing which is there. A sanction will have its own way but then there is this power to summon witnesses and, as I have already mentioned, requiring them to produce documents and other things. When you give all these powers, at least some of us feel that in the present set-up in our country, these powers are a little excessive. They are not called for in the present conditions existing in our newspaper world. Some of these powers have not been found necessary to be given to the British Press Council even and, yet, we are investing our Press Council with such powers. It will be a rather hasty experiment to make, in entrusting our Press Council with these things. The question of censure is there. After all, we want our journalists and our newspapermen to voluntarily enforce a conduct and try to improve their standards of journalism which will always be in their own interest." },
  { name: "Transcription No: 1478", text: "No text sorry" },
  { name: "Transcription No: 1471", text: "no text sorry" }
  
];

const list = document.getElementById('mattersList');

KC_MATTERS.forEach((matter, index) => {
  const btn = document.createElement('button');
  btn.className = 'matter-item';
  btn.innerText = matter.name;
  btn.onclick = () => selectMatter(matter.text, matter.name);
  list.appendChild(btn);
});

// Apply dark mode if on
if(localStorage.getItem("darkMode")==="on") document.body.classList.add("dark");
</script>

</body>
</html>
